Add metrics reference page (#383)
rancher/rke2-docs: docs/reference/metrics.md

---
title: Metrics
---

import Label from '@site/src/components/Label';

RKE2 provides metrics for monitoring the health and performance of the cluster.

## Accessing Metrics

> Metrics are exposed by the kubelet and can be accessed via the `/metrics` endpoint on each node at port `9345`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics are exposed by the supervisor and can be accessed via the `/metrics` endpoint on each node at port `9345` when the `supervisor-metrics` option is enabled.
```

```sh
kubectl get --server https://192.168.0.192:9345 --raw /metrics
```

## List of Metrics

Most of the exposed metrics are upstream Kubernetes metrics, see the [Kubernetes Metrics documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/instrumentation/metrics//) for more information.

### rke2_loadbalancer_server_connections

Count of current connections to loadbalancer server.
- Type: Gauge
- Labels: <Label>name</Label> <Label>server</Label>

### rke2_loadbalancer_server_health

> Current health value of loadbalancer server. A value of 1 indicates healthy, 0 indicates unhealthy.

Reviewer: Its more complicated than that, see https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/blob/ce15c9bfb8e2b0ee3999eab46cddaacabcd1d5d4/pkg/agent/loadbalancer/servers.go#L320-L333
